 # Recommender Systems

# Task description
The task is to develop different types of recommendation systems, taking as a basis any mathematical solutions and algorithms, not including neural networks.
4 types of recommendation systems have been developed:
 - Demographic filtering;
 - Content_Based_Filtering;
 - k-means_recommend;
 - SVD_calloborativ.
 # Dataset 
Dataset TMDB 5000 Movie Dataset was used. Datasets are in the 'Data' folder, you need to download them.
Describe dataset:

The first dataset 'tmdb_5000_credits.csv', and it contains the following:

- movie_id - unique identifier for each movie
- cast - name of lead and supporting actors
- crew - name of director, editor, composer, writer, and more.

The second dataset 'tmdb_5000_movies.csv', and it contains the following:

- budget - the budget in which the movie was made
- genre - genre of movie (action, comedy, thriller, and more)
- id - movie id in the first dataset
- keywords - keywords or tags related to movie
- original_language - language in which movie was made
- original_title - movie title before translation or adaptation
- overview - brief description of movie
- popularity - numeric quantity specifying movie popularity
- production_companies - the production house of movie
- production_countries - country in which movie was produced
- release_data - date of movie release
- revenue - worldwide revenue generated by movie
- runtime - running time of the movie in minutes
- status - "Released" or "Rumored"
- tagline - movie's tagline
- title - title of movie
- vote_average - average ratings of movie recieved
- vote_count - count of votes recieved

 # Download project
 In order for the project to be cloned to the current folder, you need to open the command line and run the commandу (git clone 
  https://github.com/edword1996/RecommendEdik.git)
  
  # Package Installation

In order to run the program, you must install Python 3.5.6

You can download and install python here https://www.python.org/downloads/

Installation Instructions https://www.howtogeek.com/197947/how-to-install-python-on-windows/
This package installation applies to all files.

Requirements install:
```
alembic==1.4.2
apyori==1.1.2
attrs==19.3.0
certifi==2020.4.5.1
chardet==3.0.4
cycler==0.10.0
Cython==0.29.19
dataset==1.3.1
feedparser==5.2.1
idna==2.9
joblib==0.14.1
kiwisolver==1.1.0
Mako==1.1.2
MarkupSafe==1.1.1
matplotlib==3.0.3
mlxtend==0.17.2
numpy==1.18.4
pandas==0.24.2
pyfpgrowth==1.0
pyparsing==2.4.7
python-dateutil==2.8.1
python-editor==1.0.4
pytz==2020.1
reader==0.13
requests==2.23.0
scikit-learn==0.22.2.post1
scipy==1.4.1
seaborn==0.9.1
six==1.14.0
SQLAlchemy==1.3.17
urllib3==1.25.9

```
All the libraries above are installed using (```pip install -r requirements.txt```) the command line.

# Usage
To start a project, open a command prompt in the folder where the project is located.
```
python demographic.py
Content_Based_Filtering.py
k-means_recommend.py
SVD_calloborativ.py
```

# Demographic filtering
Before getting started with this:

- we need a metric to score or rate movie
- Calculate the score for every movie
- Sort the scores and recommend the best rated movie to the users.
# Result


